New year, new playbook. What's really
going to work for LinkedIn B2B marketing
in 2026? Let's take a look. Good day
everyone. It's Michelle J. Raymond here
and welcome back. 2026 has started. We
are off and racing. And marketers, I
want to know, are you going into 2026
with your LinkedIn strategy with
confidence or lots more question marks?
because I think he'd be forgiven if it
was the latter with lots of question
marks because ultimately there has been
so many changes that went on on the
platform in 2025 and they were
fundamental changes. The way that
LinkedIn works now is very very
different to how it has previously. Is
it a good thing? I'm not sure. Time will
tell. And for me, I certainly went
through a bumpy period as I've shared on
the podcast in, you know, previous
episodes about what it was like for me
with the changes to the algorithm. And
now that we've got 360 brew, which is
the engine that runs the algorithm, is
completely new technology for LinkedIn.
And that is really a gamecher. So, I'm
not saying throw out the playbook for
your LinkedIn marketing, but I am saying
we really need to stop and take a look.
And I think the best place to start for
this is definitely going to be the
fundamentals of what has actually
changed. I think it's important to
understand what has changed and then
what I think will make the biggest
difference and where do we go to from
here? What things do you need in your
LinkedIn playbook for 2026? That
includes company pages. It includes how
we get our employees active and how we
bring them all together. Yay for the
power of two. That's not going out of
fashion and certainly something I'll be
more focused on in the podcast going
forward. So, thank you to everyone that
gave me so much support last year. It
just means the world to me, especially
when you reach out and connect. that
makes my day. So, if you're someone
that's new to the podcast, welcome.
Please do make sure that you connect
with me on LinkedIn so that we can stay
in contact between episodes. What's
really changed on LinkedIn? Let's start
there. And I think the most important
place to start with the changes is the
definite shift on LinkedIn from a
platform where you could pretty much do
most things for free and get away with
it to very much being a payto-play
platform and LinkedIn focusing on that.
So we definitely saw a lot of features
being hidden behind pay walls, a very
big distinction between free accounts
and premium accounts and rightly so. It
probably should have always been like
that. We've seen the rise of boost
features. So, LinkedIn enticing us to
spend more money on ads, not just as
company pages, but also as individuals
now being able to boost our posts. The
actual people on the platform have
changed. We're now 70% Gen Z and also
millennials are in that number, but Gen
Z really do own the LinkedIn platform.
And we're going to see more and more
changes come through from LinkedIn and
features that they promote based on what
will attract and keep that audience on
the platform. LinkedIn's coming up to a
quarter of a century that it's been
around and been a part of our lives.
Some of you that are listening have
probably been around for a long period
and seen all of these changes. And
that's the only thing that we can be
certain of is that it will continue to
change. I think with that also comes the
fact that the platform is more crowded
than ever. If I rewind the clock 10 11
years when I first started social
selling on LinkedIn, it really was what
I realize now such an amazing time to be
on there. You could post anything and
get huge amounts of impressions. You
could connect with unlimited numbers of
people. It was just brilliant. people
would respond to your DMs because they
didn't think that you were going to sell
them something straight away and
ultimately also, you know, no AI, no
automation. Are we still using the term
AI slop or when humans just copy each
other? Does that really help our
situation or say that we're better than
AI? I don't know. There's so many things
to think about when it comes to that
particular topic. Ultimately, when we're
looking at these changes, 360 Brew is
now the large language model that runs
the LinkedIn algorithm behind the
scenes. How would I describe it? Pretty
much it's looking for signals from you
at all times on who you are, what you
do, and what makes you different. So,
making sure that your profile is
updated, that your company page is
updated. All of these things are really
important as well as consistent contact
with our community and creating content
that serves that community. In a
nutshell, we probably should have been
doing that always. So, there shouldn't
be any real big changes. But if you're
someone like me that has kind of
neglected updating your profile for a
while, and certainly company pages are
neglected in most of the audits that
I've ever done, it's time for you to go
back and actually do a bit of work on
that. But they're the main things that I
think are changing. So we're crowded.
We're seeing more automation and AI and
that paytoplay is really the significant
shifts that have come through. What
difference does that make? Let's have a
look at that next. I don't know about
you, but I'm pretty fatigued from all of
the shiny new tools that promise the
world that are meant to make my life
easier. I'm not sure that they're
actually delivering on that. And I know
that there's like a lot of content that
is starting to push back on is AI
automation and all the tools we have, is
it really making us more productive?
I don't know. How do you think? So, here
we are in 2026 looking at what is the
playbook that marketers need to take
into the year for their LinkedIn
strategy. What I can tell you is that
these shiny new tools, no matter what
they promise you, are not going to ever
be able to replace a weak LinkedIn
strategy. And I think this for me is
where I am encouraging you listeners to
really stop focusing on content and go
back a few steps and figure out what is
your game plan for LinkedIn. Who are you
showing up for? How are you different to
your competitors? What is going to make
you be a standout brand, a memorable
brand to end up on short lists as all of
the LinkedIn research would suggest? How
are you going to actually do that before
you create a piece of content?
Tools that help you produce content at
scale and make you feel like you're more
productive. If you haven't done the work
on your positioning, on your messaging,
and getting clear around those things,
then ultimately all you're doing is
creating noise at scale and you're not
going to get any closer to your business
goals. And this is something that I
personally have been doing a lot of work
over the Christmas break. Unfortunately,
my brain went into hyperfocus mode,
which it does from time to time. And I
realized that if I looked at my website
versus how I show up on this podcast
versus my LinkedIn content and all the
other, you know, places that I am, I'd
grown and evolved and I hadn't gone back
and updated things. So, I rewrote my
website. Yep. Really? I did. I have gone
back and updated my LinkedIn company
page and it's got new banners and new
about info and I realized just how far
I'd drifted off course. So, if you had
come and landed via a search result on
my website or on my page or on my
profile, you would have been getting the
wrong signals from me. And I should know
better. You know, I really should. So,
for those of you who aren't from a
marketing background and this isn't on
your radar, it really is important to go
back and actually have a look at this
stuff. I think that 2026 is the year
that those that go back to marketing
fundamentals, back to the core of why
we're doing this, the core of who are we
focused on. Have you spent the last year
with your brand really talking about
yourself or the company more than being
in service of your audience? Like really
honestly go back and take a look and
think who are you actually doing all of
this for? because I know that I drifted
off course and wasn't doing the right
thing because the immediate symptom of
that is I don't get intro calls from the
right kinds of people or I don't get
intro calls at the volume that I need to
scale my business. And so this is a
symptom of a problem that when I went
back and analyzed it was really easily
fixed but something you need to make
time for. So fundamentals for the win.
The beauty of doing the work on your
fundamentals means that you have crystal
clear clarity on how you're showing up
for your ideal audience. And that is the
most powerful gift that I can really
give you at the start of this year. Now
that you have clarity around how your
brand is going to show up in the market,
let's move on to looking at two pieces
of the puzzle. your LinkedIn company
page and also how employees will show up
on LinkedIn. And I call that the power
of two. How are we going to bring these
two things together? The most important
piece of this puzzle is taking a look at
the company page. How will that show up
this year? And it's really important to
look at it differently through a
different lens. And that lens for me is
all about the company page really being
the backbone of your strategy. It is not
something where your posts organically
are going to show up in the feed. That's
only going to get worse as time goes on.
But honestly, it's the silent achiever
in the back that shows up consistently
day after day, year after year,
regardless of how many people come and
go within that business. And when it's
reliable and consistent, guess what? 360
Brew loves that. Not only does it love
it, your team will also be guided by
that experience as well. And I think
that's the important piece. I want you
to look at how you can use your company
page differently. No longer is it just
posting content talking about the
business broadcasting at your audience.
And again, I don't think it was ever
that, but we certainly have so many
examples of company pages that approach
LinkedIn that way. We've got something
to say. You're following our page. we're
going to talk at you. And then, funny
enough, they show up on the audit
sessions that I do with them and like
all you do is talk about yourself, which
is pretty boring. And then you wonder
why you're not getting any comments on
the company page content. Well, pretty
much you were talking to yourself and
that is the result of doing that. So,
with your company page, I want it to
become the cheerleader for your
industry. Whether that is for your
teammates and other employees within the
business, no matter where they are in
the world, or whether it's your clients,
I want that company page to show up and
start commenting and start liking and
engaging with posts and reposting where
it makes sense strategically,
right? This is never a volume game that
I'm talking about. So, think about how
can you make your page active? And
that's certainly something that I'm
going to be discussing in more detail in
future podcast episodes. So, make sure
you follow the podcast so you don't miss
out. Let's talk about how employees play
into this company page strategy because
you really do need to bring them
together. That's the power of two.
That's exactly how every business should
be working. Company page is there, your
employees are there, and we're all
working together. And if you've skipped
over the strategy step that we spoke
about earlier, guess what? Your
employees won't have a clue what to do.
No different to the marketers running
company pages won't have a clue either.
And all that happens is they either post
content that is not helpful on any level
or they don't post at all, which again
is equally problematic. So you have to
figure out how are you going to bring
everyone together? Strategy, strategy,
strategy. Have I said that enough on
this episode? Maybe not. Uh but
ultimately, we're going to keep coming
back to those fundamentals so that
everybody knows which direction they're
going. Now, this doesn't mean that I am
recommending that as a part of this
playbook for 2026 on LinkedIn that you
should go and prescribe every single
thing that employees should write about,
provide all the graphics, make sure that
they only talk about the company. That
is definitely not what I'm recommending.
You are going to have people at all ends
of the scale. So if you want your
employees to be active, strategy first,
invest in training. Do not assume that
they know what to do. Probably the
biggest issue I saw in all of the teams
that I worked with last year is people
think LinkedIn is easy. Guess what?
LinkedIn isn't easy. Like honestly, it's
not. Even for me that lives and breathes
and eats this stuff, it really is tricky
and it's getting harder as time goes on,
not easier. So, give them guidance. Set
them up for success. And certainly don't
try and force people to do it and don't
pretend that the business owns their
personal account. That is a recipe for
disaster and certainly something I'm not
encouraging, but I'm definitely
encouraging people getting in the same
room and having conversations. Whether
that's marketing and sales, the
marketing and customer service team,
regional and global teams, there are so
many different ways that we can look at
this. So, the power of two is your
winning strategy.
The 2026 LinkedIn marketing for B2B
reset is happening right now. This is
the day that I am encouraging you
listeners to stop. Don't post any more
content until you've done the work to
really achieve that clarity.
Who are you showing up for? What makes
you different? And what is it that you
offer that solves a problem for these
people in a way that resonates with
them? And I've already done like some
power hours this year. And it's been so
good to actually have conversations with
people that what happened when business
got tough in the second half of last
year and business dropped off, they
decided to go broader and more generic
and blend in with the crowd to try and
open up opportunities. And the secret to
success on LinkedIn is to actually go
narrow and have that clarity so that you
are the go-to recommended business or
person for the problem that you solve.
And if you're confused and broad, then
everybody else will and you miss out on
those recommendations.
And also 360 Brew is developed to try
and make these connections. But if
you're confused, then it will be
confused. And so the results that you
will get on LinkedIn won't be anywhere
near what you're hoping. Especially when
we come out in the new year with so much
enthusiasm, ready to do things
different. We can take over the world
and then boom, without clarity, things
are just going to fall over. So clear,
consistent positioning, messaging, that
is how your brand will stand out and
actually achieve the results that you
want. Where possible, I want you to
think about how can you build systems
around your LinkedIn processes built on
your strategy where the company page and
employees work together and support each
other. No more marketers are looking
after the company page. The employee
advocacy team are doing something else
and everybody else is just running
around cuz they're not a part of those
programs doing whatever they want. It's
time to sit in the same room
figuratively or literally if you can and
have conversations around what this
would look like. What's in it for
everyone? What is the purpose? Where are
you trying to get to? How can it help
individuals achieve their goals as well
as why it's important for the
individuals to help support the business
to achieve its goals? And this is
something that I'm sure you can tell I'm
super passionate about bringing things
together. And you're going to see and
hear more of that from me this year
because I know that for myself, I got so
caught up in the shiny tools that were
going to save the world and deliver all
this productivity that I got lost and I
forgot to focus on what matters. I think
that if together we do the work and stop
and reset and think what is it that we
want to achieve from LinkedIn in 2026
and I'm not talking just about the
number of posts that you'll do when we
do that work it will pay off and I'm
going to do a series of these episodes
where we can dive into each of these
areas a little bit more so company pages
will be next and we'll talk about
employees on LinkedIn and really start
to get into why this will make such a
big difference. And if we set ourselves
up for success, I know that by the time
we get to the end of the year, you're
really going to have a brand that stands
out and is the obvious choice for your
audience. So, if that sounds appealing
to you, it's definitely where I'm going
to be heading this year. Don't forget to
give the podcast a follow or subscribe
if you're watching this over on YouTube.
Until next week, cheers.
Heat. Heat. N.
[music]